# The quest between Algebraists and Analysts in Maths

Analysts eat corn in spirals, algebraist in rows. It appears, then,
that analysis deals with details while algebra takes a broader view.

## Analyst (Top Down)

He starts with an object and then looks for things he can prove about
the object. An analyst can get bogged down in the details of the
object he studies. Programmers that say "YAGNI" are analysts. If you
like bottom up programming you're probably an analyst. If you like
Lisp you're probably an analyst. Analysts focus on specific mental
models of a system, and then the necessary calculations flow from
those models.

The analytic world is full of ad hoc methods designed to circumvent
technical difficulties such as convergence issues. In fact, the ad hoc
nature of analysis even makes it difficult to over-generalize.
Analysis deals in inequalities and error terms. This is evident from
the very beginning, in the theory of epsilons and deltas. Instead of
obtaining precise values, it's sufficient to show that epsilon and
delta are within a certain range.

## Algebraist (Bottom up)

An algebraist starts with the proof, and then looks for objects for
which the proof is valid. An algebraist has the tendency to make
trivial statements complicated. Programmers that try to generalize
their code as much as possible are algebraists. If you like interfaces
and design patterns you're probably an algebraist. If you like
Haskell, you're probably an algebraist. He focus on kinds of
manipulations that have proven effective in the past

Algebra is the study of collections of objects (sets, groups, rings,
fields, etc). In algebra, people care more about the structures of
these collections and how these collections interact than about the
objects themselves. In fact, with homomorphism and isomorphisms, the
original objects become irrelevant. In algebra, people are always
looking for equalities: Are these objects isomorphic? Can we classify
all objects of this type?
